## rtables 0.3.2.17.9047

* split function generated by `split_keep_levels` will throw an error at build time if the data column is a factor and an invalid level is specified
* split function generated by `split_keep_levels` will work correctly when a non-present level is specified for character data
* cbind_rtables now correctly sets the column info for subtables with no children


## rtables 0.3.2.17.9046

* `make_afun` now `force()`s all customization arguments immediately, which prevents problems when called within loop/lapply constructs.

## rtables 0.3.2.17.9045

* Tabulation machinery no longer removes NAs mandatorily in some cases, including mutlivar column splits
* `analyze_colvars`'s `inclNAs` argument now respected.

## rtables 0.3.2.17.9044

* Fix indent modifier propogation during tabulation
* Fix indent calculation in `make_pagdf`
* Add significant testing to ensure `make_pagdf` indent calculation remains correct

## rtables 0.3.2.17.9043

* Rework how reference columns are handled so analyses which use `.in_ref_col` and `.ref_group` work correctly when custom splitting is used (including the provided combination-levels mechanism)

## rtables 0.3.2.17.9042

* Fix naming/pathing for columns in multivar case (split itself now has default name "multivars")
* Fix labelling bug when same variable appears multiple times in MultiVarSplit with different associated levels


## rtables 0.3.2.17.9041

* Allow single variable to be used within `split_cols_by_multivar` 
* Various removal of defunct 

## rtables 0.3.2.17.9040

* Fix regression caused by 0.3.2.17.9039 where column split values were displayed by name rather than label.

## rtables 0.3.2.17.9039

* Fix bug in display of column information when column structure is not symetric, as with recursive cbinds.

## rtables 0.3.2.17.9036

* Fixed bug in row subsetting when table has only content rows.
* Basic compare_rtables function now works as in previous versions, no awareness of row or column structure.

## rtables 0.3.2.17.9036

* `summarize_row_groups` can now accept a list of functions for the `cfun` argument as `analyze_colvars` does.

## rtables 0.3.2.17.9035

* Fix bug unearthed by change in 0.3.2.17.9034 where cell formats not retained during column subsetting

## rtables 0.3.2.17.9034

* Fix internal `value_formats` accessor so it operates on CellValues rather than the raw contained values (thus always returning NULL)
* `rrow` constructor no longer interpretes cell formats a row format when they are the same across all cells. Fixes bug in  "correct way" code discussed in #112

## rtables 0.3.2.17.9033

* Interpret .formats in `in_rows` as *cell* formats rather than row formats.

## rtables 0.3.2.17.9031

* cbind_rtables can now take more than 2 tables.

## rtables 0.3.2.17.9029

* Fix issue underlying spurious length-missmatch warning in some cases when using `analyze_colvars`

## rtables 0.3.2.17.9028

* `analyze_colvars` now takes and adheres to `inclNAs` argument

## rtables 0.3.2.17.9027

* issues with no news: 

## rtables 0.1.7

* added format `xx.xx (xx.xx - xx.xx)` and `x.xxxx | (<0.0001)`

## rtables 0.1.6

* Minor changes.

## rtables 0.1.5

* Changed testing approach to fit internal pipelines.

## rtables 0.1.4

* Replaced dots to underscore in class checking functions.

## rtables 0.1.3

* `col_by` in `rtabulate` now accepts matrices:
  - `col_by_to_matrix`, `col_by_to_factor`, `by_factor_to_matrix`.
  - `by_add_total`, `by_all`, `by_combine`, `by_quartile`, `by_compare_subset`,  `by_hierarchical`, `by_drop_empty_cols`.
  
* New utility functions to deal with variable labels:
  - `label`, `var_labels<-`, `var_labels`, `var_labels_remove`, `var_relabel`, `with_label`.

* Other new functions:
  - `cbing_rtables`.
  - `empty_rtables`, `is_empty_rtable`, `is_non_empty_rtable`, `is_rtable`.
  - `header_indent`, `header_indent<-`, `header_row.names`, `header_row.names<-`.
  - `insert_rrow`.

## rtables 0.1.2

* `rbind.rtable` now supports binding rtables with rows, e.g. `rbind(tbl1, rrow(), tbl2)` or `rbind(tbl1, rrow("row name"), tbl2)`.
* `rbindl_rtables` supports `NULL` objects in the list (except for the first element).
* Add `indent` function.
* `header_add_N` deals gracefully with `NULL` objects.

## rtables 0.1.1

* `rtablulate` family of functions do not support the `row_*_data_args` arguments anymore. Instead, the `col_wise_args` argument is introduced.
* Functions `order_rrows`, `sort_rrows`, `order_rtables`, and `sort_rtables` are introduced.
* Prevent `rtables` from being unlisted with `unlist.rtables`.


## rtables 0.1.0.6

* `Viewer` now also accepts objects of class `shiny.tag` (defined in package `htmltools`).
* `as.html` accepts `class.table`, `class.tr`, `class.th`, and `class.td` as an argument.

## rtables 0.1.0.5

* Added `sprintf_format` for formatting rcells (thanks to Doug Kelkhoff for the suggestion).
* Added `"(N=xx)"` and `">999.9"` format labels.
* `rtabulate` has now an argument `col_N` and the function `col_N()`.

## rtables 0.1.0

* Version `0.1.0` is a major re-design with lots of internal refactoring and the following API changes:
  - Redesign: `rtable` has now `header` argument instead of `col.names`. A `header` can be created with `rheader` and is a collection of `rrow`s. If `header` is set to `c("A", "B")` then `rtable` will create the `rheader` with a single `rrow`  and by setting `row.name` to `NULL`.
  - `header` and `header<-` function added.
  - Renamed `get_rcell_formats` to `list_rcell_format_labels`.
  - If `rcell` format is `NULL` then the cell content will be converted to a string with `paste(as.character(x), collapse = ', ')`.
  - Accessor `[i,]` works now to subset a table.
  - `rbind` method for rtables.
  - `row.names<-.rtable` method.
  - `rtabulate` added for creating tables.
  - `indented_row.names` function added.

## rtables 0.0.1

* Initial public release
