# Define a subset tabulation/analysis

Define a subset tabulation/analysis

Define a subset tabulation/analysis

## Usage

``` r
AnalyzeVarSplit(
  var,
  split_label = var,
  afun,
  defrowlab = "",
  cfun = NULL,
  cformat = NULL,
  split_format = NULL,
  split_na_str = NA_character_,
  inclNAs = FALSE,
  split_name = var,
  extra_args = list(),
  indent_mod = 0L,
  label_pos = "default",
  cvar = "",
  section_div = NA_character_
)

AnalyzeColVarSplit(
  afun,
  defrowlab = "",
  cfun = NULL,
  cformat = NULL,
  split_format = NULL,
  split_na_str = NA_character_,
  inclNAs = FALSE,
  split_name = "",
  extra_args = list(),
  indent_mod = 0L,
  label_pos = "default",
  cvar = "",
  section_div = NA_character_
)

AnalyzeMultiVars(
  var,
  split_label = "",
  afun,
  defrowlab = "",
  cfun = NULL,
  cformat = NULL,
  split_format = NULL,
  split_na_str = NA_character_,
  inclNAs = FALSE,
  .payload = NULL,
  split_name = NULL,
  extra_args = list(),
  indent_mod = 0L,
  child_labels = c("default", "topleft", "visible", "hidden"),
  child_names = var,
  cvar = "",
  section_div = NA_character_
)
```

## Arguments

- var:

  (`string`)  
  variable name.

- split_label:

  (`string`)  
  label to be associated with the table generated by the split. Not to
  be confused with labels assigned to each child (which are based on the
  data and type of split during tabulation).

- afun:

  (`function`)  
  analysis function. Must accept `x` or `df` as its first parameter. Can
  optionally take other parameters which will be populated by the
  tabulation framework. See Details in
  [`analyze()`](https://insightsengineering.github.io/rtables/reference/analyze.md).

- defrowlab:

  (`character`)  
  default row labels, if not specified by the return value of `afun`.

- cfun:

  (`list`, `function`, or `NULL`)  
  tabulation function(s) for creating content rows. Must accept `x` or
  `df` as first parameter. Must accept `labelstr` as the second
  argument. Can optionally accept all optional arguments accepted by
  analysis functions. See
  [`analyze()`](https://insightsengineering.github.io/rtables/reference/analyze.md).

- cformat:

  (`string`, `function`, or `list`)  
  format for content rows.

- split_format:

  (`string`, `function`, or `list`)  
  default format associated with the split being created.

- split_na_str:

  (`character`)  
  NA string vector for use with `split_format`.

- inclNAs:

  (`logical`)  
  whether NA observations in the `var` variable(s) should be included
  when performing the analysis. Defaults to `FALSE`.

- split_name:

  (`string`)  
  name associated with the split (for pathing, etc.).

- extra_args:

  (`list`)  
  extra arguments to be passed to the tabulation function. Element
  position in the list corresponds to the children of this split. Named
  elements in the child-specific lists are ignored if they do not match
  a formal argument of the tabulation function.

- indent_mod:

  (`numeric`)  
  modifier for the default indent position for the structure created by
  this function (subtable, content table, or row) *and all of that
  structure's children*. Defaults to 0, which corresponds to the
  unmodified default behavior.

- label_pos:

  (`string`)  
  location where the variable label should be displayed. Accepts
  `"hidden"` (default for non-analyze row splits), `"visible"`,
  `"topleft"`, and `"default"` (for analyze splits only). For `analyze`
  calls, `"default"` indicates that the variable should be visible if
  and only if multiple variables are analyzed at the same level of
  nesting.

- cvar:

  (`string`)  
  the variable, if any, that the content function should accept.
  Defaults to `NA`.

- section_div:

  (`string`)  
  string which should be repeated as a section divider after each group
  defined by this split instruction, or `NA_character_` (the default)
  for no section divider.

- .payload:

  (`list`)  
  used internally, not intended to be set by end users.

- child_labels:

  (`string`)  
  the display behavior for the labels (i.e. label rows) of the children
  of this split. Accepts `"default"`, `"visible"`, and `"hidden"`.
  Defaults to `"default"` which flags the label row as visible only if
  the child has 0 content rows.

- child_names:

  (`character`)  
  names to be given to the subsplits contained by a compound split
  (typically an `AnalyzeMultiVars` split object).

## Value

An `AnalyzeVarSplit` object.

An `AnalyzeMultiVars` split object.

## Author

Gabriel Becker
