# Constructor argument conventions

Constructor argument conventions

## Usage

``` r
constr_args(
  kids,
  cont,
  lev,
  iscontent,
  cinfo,
  labelrow,
  vals,
  cspan,
  label_pos,
  cindent_mod,
  cvar,
  label,
  cextra_args,
  child_names,
  title,
  subtitles,
  main_footer,
  prov_footer,
  footnotes,
  page_title,
  page_prefix,
  section_div,
  trailing_section_div,
  split_na_str,
  cna_str,
  inset,
  table_inset,
  header_section_div
)
```

## Arguments

- kids:

  (`list`)  
  list of direct children.

- cont:

  (`ElementaryTable`)  
  content table.

- lev:

  (`integer(1)`)  
  nesting level (roughly, indentation level in practical terms).

- iscontent:

  (`flag`)  
  whether the `TableTree`/`ElementaryTable` is being constructed as the
  content table for another `TableTree`.

- cinfo:

  (`InstantiatedColumnInfo` or `NULL`)  
  column structure for the object being created.

- labelrow:

  (`LabelRow`)  
  the `LabelRow` object to assign to the table. Constructed from `label`
  by default if not specified.

- vals:

  (`list`)  
  cell values for the row.

- cspan:

  (`integer`)  
  column span. `1` indicates no spanning.

- label_pos:

  (`string`)  
  location where the variable label should be displayed. Accepts
  `"hidden"` (default for non-analyze row splits), `"visible"`,
  `"topleft"`, and `"default"` (for analyze splits only). For `analyze`
  calls, `"default"` indicates that the variable should be visible if
  and only if multiple variables are analyzed at the same level of
  nesting.

- cindent_mod:

  (`numeric(1)`)  
  the indent modifier for the content tables generated by this split.

- cvar:

  (`string`)  
  the variable, if any, that the content function should accept.
  Defaults to `NA`.

- label:

  (`string`)  
  a label (not to be confused with the name) for the object/structure.

- cextra_args:

  (`list`)  
  extra arguments to be passed to the content function when tabulating
  row group summaries.

- child_names:

  (`character`)  
  names to be given to the subsplits contained by a compound split
  (typically an `AnalyzeMultiVars` split object).

- title:

  (`string`)  
  single string to use as main title
  ([`formatters::main_title()`](https://insightsengineering.github.io/formatters/latest-tag/reference/title_footer.html)).
  Ignored for subtables.

- subtitles:

  (`character`)  
  a vector of strings to use as subtitles
  ([`formatters::subtitles()`](https://insightsengineering.github.io/formatters/latest-tag/reference/title_footer.html)),
  where every element is printed on a separate line. Ignored for
  subtables.

- main_footer:

  (`character`)  
  a vector of strings to use as main global (non-referential) footer
  materials
  ([`formatters::main_footer()`](https://insightsengineering.github.io/formatters/latest-tag/reference/title_footer.html)),
  where every element is printed on a separate line.

- prov_footer:

  (`character`)  
  a vector of strings to use as provenance-related global footer
  materials
  ([`formatters::prov_footer()`](https://insightsengineering.github.io/formatters/latest-tag/reference/title_footer.html)),
  where every element is printed on a separate line.

- footnotes:

  (`list` or `NULL`)  
  referential footnotes to be applied at current level. In
  post-processing, this can be achieved with `fnotes_at_path<-`.

- page_title:

  (`character`)  
  page-specific title(s).

- page_prefix:

  (`string`)  
  prefix to be appended with the split value when forcing pagination
  between the children of a split/table.

- section_div:

  (`string`)  
  string which should be repeated as a section divider after each group
  defined by this split instruction, or `NA_character_` (the default)
  for no section divider.

- trailing_section_div:

  (`string`)  
  string which will be used as a section divider after the printing of
  the last row contained in this (sub)table, unless that row is also the
  last table row to be printed overall, or `NA_character_` for none (the
  default). When generated via layouting, this would correspond to the
  `section_div` of the split under which this table represents a single
  facet.

- split_na_str:

  (`character`)  
  NA string vector for use with `split_format`.

- cna_str:

  (`character`)  
  NA string for use with `cformat` for content table.

- inset:

  (`numeric(1)`)  
  number of spaces to inset the table header, table body, referential
  footnotes, and main_footer, as compared to alignment of title,
  subtitle, and provenance footer. Defaults to 0 (no inset).

- table_inset:

  (`numeric(1)`)  
  number of spaces to inset the table header, table body, referential
  footnotes, and main footer, as compared to alignment of title,
  subtitles, and provenance footer. Defaults to 0 (no inset).

- header_section_div:

  (`string`)  
  string which will be used to divide the header from the table. See
  [`header_section_div()`](https://insightsengineering.github.io/rtables/reference/section_div.md)
  for the associated getter and setter. Please consider changing last
  element of
  [`section_div()`](https://insightsengineering.github.io/rtables/reference/section_div.md)
  when concatenating tables that require a divider between them.

## Value

No return value.

## See also

Other conventions:
[`compat_args()`](https://insightsengineering.github.io/rtables/reference/compat_args.md),
[`gen_args()`](https://insightsengineering.github.io/rtables/reference/gen_args.md),
[`lyt_args()`](https://insightsengineering.github.io/rtables/reference/lyt_args.md),
[`sf_args()`](https://insightsengineering.github.io/rtables/reference/sf_args.md)
