# Manually defined split

Manually defined split

## Usage

``` r
ManualSplit(
  levels,
  label,
  name = "manual",
  extra_args = list(),
  indent_mod = 0L,
  cindent_mod = 0L,
  cvar = "",
  cextra_args = list(),
  label_pos = "visible",
  page_prefix = NA_character_,
  section_div = NA_character_
)
```

## Arguments

- levels:

  (`character`)  
  levels of the split (i.e. the children of the manual split).

- label:

  (`string`)  
  a label (not to be confused with the name) for the object/structure.

- name:

  (`string`)  
  name of the split/table/row being created. Defaults to the value of
  the corresponding label, but is not required to be.

- extra_args:

  (`list`)  
  extra arguments to be passed to the tabulation function. Element
  position in the list corresponds to the children of this split. Named
  elements in the child-specific lists are ignored if they do not match
  a formal argument of the tabulation function.

- indent_mod:

  (`numeric`)  
  modifier for the default indent position for the structure created by
  this function (subtable, content table, or row) *and all of that
  structure's children*. Defaults to 0, which corresponds to the
  unmodified default behavior.

- cindent_mod:

  (`numeric(1)`)  
  the indent modifier for the content tables generated by this split.

- cvar:

  (`string`)  
  the variable, if any, that the content function should accept.
  Defaults to `NA`.

- cextra_args:

  (`list`)  
  extra arguments to be passed to the content function when tabulating
  row group summaries.

- label_pos:

  (`string`)  
  location where the variable label should be displayed. Accepts
  `"hidden"` (default for non-analyze row splits), `"visible"`,
  `"topleft"`, and `"default"` (for analyze splits only). For `analyze`
  calls, `"default"` indicates that the variable should be visible if
  and only if multiple variables are analyzed at the same level of
  nesting.

- page_prefix:

  (`string`)  
  prefix to be appended with the split value when forcing pagination
  between the children of a split/table.

- section_div:

  (`string`)  
  string which should be repeated as a section divider after each group
  defined by this split instruction, or `NA_character_` (the default)
  for no section divider.

## Value

A `ManualSplit` object.

## Author

Gabriel Becker
