# Splits for cutting by values of a numeric variable

Splits for cutting by values of a numeric variable

Create static cut or static cumulative cut split

## Usage

``` r
make_static_cut_split(
  var,
  split_label,
  cuts,
  cutlabels = NULL,
  cfun = NULL,
  cformat = NULL,
  cna_str = NA_character_,
  split_format = NULL,
  split_na_str = NA_character_,
  split_name = var,
  child_labels = c("default", "visible", "hidden"),
  extra_args = list(),
  indent_mod = 0L,
  cindent_mod = 0L,
  cvar = "",
  cextra_args = list(),
  label_pos = "visible",
  cumulative = FALSE,
  page_prefix = NA_character_,
  section_div = NA_character_,
  show_colcounts = FALSE,
  colcount_format = NULL
)

VarDynCutSplit(
  var,
  split_label,
  cutfun,
  cutlabelfun = function(x) NULL,
  cfun = NULL,
  cformat = NULL,
  cna_str = NA_character_,
  split_format = NULL,
  split_na_str = NA_character_,
  split_name = var,
  child_labels = c("default", "visible", "hidden"),
  extra_args = list(),
  cumulative = FALSE,
  indent_mod = 0L,
  cindent_mod = 0L,
  cvar = "",
  cextra_args = list(),
  label_pos = "visible",
  page_prefix = NA_character_,
  section_div = NA_character_,
  show_colcounts = FALSE,
  colcount_format = NULL
)
```

## Arguments

- var:

  (`string`)  
  variable name.

- split_label:

  (`string`)  
  label to be associated with the table generated by the split. Not to
  be confused with labels assigned to each child (which are based on the
  data and type of split during tabulation).

- cuts:

  (`numeric`)  
  cuts to use.

- cutlabels:

  (`character` or `NULL`)  
  labels for the cuts.

- cfun:

  (`list`, `function`, or `NULL`)  
  tabulation function(s) for creating content rows. Must accept `x` or
  `df` as first parameter. Must accept `labelstr` as the second
  argument. Can optionally accept all optional arguments accepted by
  analysis functions. See
  [`analyze()`](https://insightsengineering.github.io/rtables/reference/analyze.md).

- cformat:

  (`string`, `function`, or `list`)  
  format for content rows.

- cna_str:

  (`character`)  
  NA string for use with `cformat` for content table.

- split_format:

  (`string`, `function`, or `list`)  
  default format associated with the split being created.

- split_na_str:

  (`character`)  
  NA string vector for use with `split_format`.

- split_name:

  (`string`)  
  name associated with the split (for pathing, etc.).

- child_labels:

  (`string`)  
  the display behavior for the labels (i.e. label rows) of the children
  of this split. Accepts `"default"`, `"visible"`, and `"hidden"`.
  Defaults to `"default"` which flags the label row as visible only if
  the child has 0 content rows.

- extra_args:

  (`list`)  
  extra arguments to be passed to the tabulation function. Element
  position in the list corresponds to the children of this split. Named
  elements in the child-specific lists are ignored if they do not match
  a formal argument of the tabulation function.

- indent_mod:

  (`numeric`)  
  modifier for the default indent position for the structure created by
  this function (subtable, content table, or row) *and all of that
  structure's children*. Defaults to 0, which corresponds to the
  unmodified default behavior.

- cindent_mod:

  (`numeric(1)`)  
  the indent modifier for the content tables generated by this split.

- cvar:

  (`string`)  
  the variable, if any, that the content function should accept.
  Defaults to `NA`.

- cextra_args:

  (`list`)  
  extra arguments to be passed to the content function when tabulating
  row group summaries.

- label_pos:

  (`string`)  
  location where the variable label should be displayed. Accepts
  `"hidden"` (default for non-analyze row splits), `"visible"`,
  `"topleft"`, and `"default"` (for analyze splits only). For `analyze`
  calls, `"default"` indicates that the variable should be visible if
  and only if multiple variables are analyzed at the same level of
  nesting.

- cumulative:

  (`flag`)  
  whether the cuts should be treated as cumulative. Defaults to `FALSE`.

- page_prefix:

  (`string`)  
  prefix to be appended with the split value when forcing pagination
  between the children of a split/table.

- section_div:

  (`string`)  
  string which should be repeated as a section divider after each group
  defined by this split instruction, or `NA_character_` (the default)
  for no section divider.

- show_colcounts:

  (`logical(1)`)  
  should column counts be displayed at the level facets created by this
  split. Defaults to `FALSE`.

- colcount_format:

  (`character(1)`)  
  if `show_colcounts` is `TRUE`, the format which should be used to
  display column counts for facets generated by this split. Defaults to
  `"(N=xx)"`.

- cutfun:

  (`function`)  
  function which accepts the *full vector* of `var` values and returns
  cut points to be used (via `cut`) when splitting data during
  tabulation.

- cutlabelfun:

  (`function`)  
  function which returns either labels for the cuts or `NULL` when
  passed the return value of `cutfun`.

## Value

A `VarStaticCutSplit`, `CumulativeCutSplit` object for
`make_static_cut_split`, or a `VarDynCutSplit` object for
`VarDynCutSplit()`.
