# Layouting function argument conventions

Layouting function argument conventions

## Usage

``` r
lyt_args(
  lyt,
  var,
  vars,
  label,
  labels_var,
  varlabels,
  varnames,
  split_format,
  split_na_str,
  nested,
  format,
  cfun,
  cformat,
  cna_str,
  split_fun,
  split_name,
  split_label,
  afun,
  inclNAs,
  valorder,
  ref_group,
  compfun,
  label_fstr,
  child_labels,
  extra_args,
  name,
  cuts,
  cutlabels,
  cutfun,
  cutlabelfun,
  cumulative,
  indent_mod,
  show_labels,
  label_pos,
  var_labels,
  cvar,
  table_names,
  topleft,
  align,
  page_by,
  page_prefix,
  format_na_str,
  section_div,
  na_str,
  show_colcounts,
  colcount_format,
  parent_name,
  formats_var,
  na_strs_var
)
```

## Arguments

- lyt:

  (`PreDataTableLayouts`)  
  layout object pre-data used for tabulation.

- var:

  (`string`)  
  variable name.

- vars:

  (`character`)  
  vector of variable names.

- label:

  (`string`)  
  a label (not to be confused with the name) for the object/structure.

- labels_var:

  (`string`)  
  name of variable containing labels to be displayed for the values of
  `var`.

- varlabels:

  (`character`)  
  vector of labels for `vars`.

- varnames:

  (`character`)  
  vector of names for `vars` which will appear in pathing. When `vars`
  are all unique this will be the variable names. If not, these will be
  variable names with suffixes as necessary to enforce uniqueness.

- split_format:

  (`string`, `function`, or `list`)  
  default format associated with the split being created.

- split_na_str:

  (`character`)  
  NA string vector for use with `split_format`.

- nested:

  (`logical`)  
  whether this layout instruction should be applied within the existing
  layout structure *if possible* (`TRUE`, the default) or as a new
  top-level element (`FALSE`). Ignored if it would nest a split
  underneath analyses, which is not allowed.

- format:

  (`string`, `function`, or `list`)  
  format associated with this split. Formats can be declared via strings
  (`"xx.x"`) or function. In cases such as `analyze` calls, they can be
  character vectors or lists of functions. See
  [`formatters::list_valid_format_labels()`](https://insightsengineering.github.io/formatters/latest-tag/reference/list_formats.html)
  for a list of all available format strings.

- cfun:

  (`list`, `function`, or `NULL`)  
  tabulation function(s) for creating content rows. Must accept `x` or
  `df` as first parameter. Must accept `labelstr` as the second
  argument. Can optionally accept all optional arguments accepted by
  analysis functions. See
  [`analyze()`](https://insightsengineering.github.io/rtables/reference/analyze.md).

- cformat:

  (`string`, `function`, or `list`)  
  format for content rows.

- cna_str:

  (`character`)  
  NA string for use with `cformat` for content table.

- split_fun:

  (`function` or `NULL`)  
  custom splitting function. See
  [custom_split_funs](https://insightsengineering.github.io/rtables/reference/custom_split_funs.md).

- split_name:

  (`string`)  
  name associated with the split (for pathing, etc.).

- split_label:

  (`string`)  
  label to be associated with the table generated by the split. Not to
  be confused with labels assigned to each child (which are based on the
  data and type of split during tabulation).

- afun:

  (`function`)  
  analysis function. Must accept `x` or `df` as its first parameter. Can
  optionally take other parameters which will be populated by the
  tabulation framework. See Details in
  [`analyze()`](https://insightsengineering.github.io/rtables/reference/analyze.md).

- inclNAs:

  (`logical`)  
  whether NA observations in the `var` variable(s) should be included
  when performing the analysis. Defaults to `FALSE`.

- valorder:

  (`character`)  
  the order that the split children should appear in resulting table.

- ref_group:

  (`character`)  
  value of `var` to be taken as the `ref_group`/control to be compared
  against.

- compfun:

  (`function` or `string`)  
  the comparison function which accepts the analysis function outputs
  for two different partitions and returns a single value. Defaults to
  subtraction. If a string, taken as the name of a function.

- label_fstr:

  (`string`)  
  a `sprintf` style format string. For non-comparison splits, it can
  contain up to one `"\%s"` which takes the current split value and
  generates the row/column label. For comparison-based splits it can
  contain up to two `"\%s"`.

- child_labels:

  (`string`)  
  the display behavior for the labels (i.e. label rows) of the children
  of this split. Accepts `"default"`, `"visible"`, and `"hidden"`.
  Defaults to `"default"` which flags the label row as visible only if
  the child has 0 content rows.

- extra_args:

  (`list`)  
  extra arguments to be passed to the tabulation function. Element
  position in the list corresponds to the children of this split. Named
  elements in the child-specific lists are ignored if they do not match
  a formal argument of the tabulation function.

- name:

  (`string`)  
  name of the split/table/row being created. Defaults to the value of
  the corresponding label, but is not required to be.

- cuts:

  (`numeric`)  
  cuts to use.

- cutlabels:

  (`character` or `NULL`)  
  labels for the cuts.

- cutfun:

  (`function`)  
  function which accepts the *full vector* of `var` values and returns
  cut points to be used (via `cut`) when splitting data during
  tabulation.

- cutlabelfun:

  (`function`)  
  function which returns either labels for the cuts or `NULL` when
  passed the return value of `cutfun`.

- cumulative:

  (`flag`)  
  whether the cuts should be treated as cumulative. Defaults to `FALSE`.

- indent_mod:

  (`numeric`)  
  modifier for the default indent position for the structure created by
  this function (subtable, content table, or row) *and all of that
  structure's children*. Defaults to 0, which corresponds to the
  unmodified default behavior.

- show_labels:

  (`string`)  
  whether the variable labels corresponding to the variable(s) in `vars`
  should be visible in the resulting table.

- label_pos:

  (`string`)  
  location where the variable label should be displayed. Accepts
  `"hidden"` (default for non-analyze row splits), `"visible"`,
  `"topleft"`, and `"default"` (for analyze splits only). For `analyze`
  calls, `"default"` indicates that the variable should be visible if
  and only if multiple variables are analyzed at the same level of
  nesting.

- var_labels:

  (`character`)  
  vector of labels for one or more variables.

- cvar:

  (`string`)  
  the variable, if any, that the content function should accept.
  Defaults to `NA`.

- table_names:

  (`character`)  
  names for the tables representing each atomic analysis. Defaults to
  `var`.

- topleft:

  (`character`)  
  override values for the "top left" material to be displayed during
  printing.

- align:

  (`string` or `NULL`)  
  alignment the value should be rendered with. Defaults to `"center"` if
  `NULL` is used. See
  [`formatters::list_valid_aligns()`](https://insightsengineering.github.io/formatters/latest-tag/reference/list_formats.html)
  for all currently supported alignments.

- page_by:

  (`flag`)  
  whether pagination should be forced between different children
  resulting from this split. An error will occur if the selected split
  does not contain at least one value that is not `NA`.

- page_prefix:

  (`string`)  
  prefix to be appended with the split value when forcing pagination
  between the children of a split/table.

- format_na_str:

  (`string`)  
  string which should be displayed when formatted if this cell's
  value(s) are all `NA`.

- section_div:

  (`string`)  
  string which should be repeated as a section divider after each group
  defined by this split instruction, or `NA_character_` (the default)
  for no section divider.

- na_str:

  (`string`)  
  string that should be displayed when the value of `x` is missing.
  Defaults to `"NA"`.

- show_colcounts:

  (`logical(1)`)  
  should column counts be displayed at the level facets created by this
  split. Defaults to `FALSE`.

- colcount_format:

  (`character(1)`)  
  if `show_colcounts` is `TRUE`, the format which should be used to
  display column counts for facets generated by this split. Defaults to
  `"(N=xx)"`.

- parent_name:

  (`character(1)`)  
  Name to assign to the table corresponding to the *split* or *group of
  sibling analyses*, for `split_rows_by*` and `analyze*` when analyzing
  more than one variable, respectively. Ignored when analyzing a single
  variable.

- formats_var:

  (`string` or `NULL`)  
  `NULL` (the default) or the name of the list column containing named
  lists of default formats to use. These will be applied with the same
  precedence as the `format` argument; i.e., they will not override
  formats (other than `"default"`) set within the afun. Cannot be used
  simultaneously with `format`.

- na_strs_var:

  (`string` or `NULL`)  
  `NULL` (the default) or the name of the list column containing named
  lists of default NA strings to use. These will be applied with the
  same precedence as the `format` argument; i.e., they will not override
  formats (other than `"default"`) set within the afun. Cannot be used
  simultaneously with `format`. Cannot be used if `formats_var` is
  `NULL`.

## Value

No return value.

## See also

Other conventions:
[`compat_args()`](https://insightsengineering.github.io/rtables/reference/compat_args.md),
[`constr_args()`](https://insightsengineering.github.io/rtables/reference/constr_args.md),
[`gen_args()`](https://insightsengineering.github.io/rtables/reference/gen_args.md),
[`sf_args()`](https://insightsengineering.github.io/rtables/reference/sf_args.md)
